---
objectID: rewards|consensus-fee
title: consensus-fee
parentSection: Rewards
---


# Minimum Consensus Fee Overview

The minimum consensus fee is an important part of transacting on the Archway Network. This guide will explain what the minimum consensus fee is and how to get this information.


::alert{variant="info"}
As Archway now relies on a market for gas fees, submitting a transaction declaring a fixed gas price won’t work
#title
INFO
::


For smart contracts that want to set a fixed gas price, the developer should make sure to fetch the latest gas price by querying the reward minimum consensus fee ([example query](#example-query))


Currently it is advisable to set up a 1.5 gas adjustment. You can do it by editing the `gas` values inside the `network` object of the `config.json` of your project:

```json
    "gas": {
      "prices": "0.002uconst",
      "mode": "auto",
      "adjustment": "1.5"
    },
```

Please note that the archway CLI already queries the latest gas pric, and querying manually is only required with archwayd.

## Minimum Consensus Fee Definition

The minimum consensus fee is the lowest required amount a user pays in transaction fees. Transactions with a lower fee amount than the minimum fee are declined.

This minimum fee protects the economic model of Archway. It prevents the incentive of sending low/no fee transactions to gain higher dapp rewards.

This minimum fee is shown in one gas unit, for example, `0.002 uarch`. The client should query the fee before submitting a new transaction.

## Minimum Fee Calculation

The minimum consensus fee is calculated for each new block and shown in one gas unit like `0.002` arch. The formula for the calculating the fee is below;

`Inflation Block Rewards` / `Block Gas Limit` \* `Transaction Fee Rebate Ratio` - `Block Gas Limit`

`Inflation Block Rewards` - Inflationary rewards per block. <br />
`Block Gas Limit` - Maximum gas limit per block. <br />
`Transaction Fee Rebate Ratio`- Ratio of split fees between Validators and dapps.

## Querying the Minimum Consensus Fee

Use the below query to get the estimated transaction fee for a given transaction. This will return the minimum consensus fee for the current block:

`bash 
 archwayd query rewards estimate-fees [gas-limit] [flags]
`

### Example Query

`bash
archwayd q rewards estimate-fees 1 --node 'https://rpc.constantine-1.archway.tech:443' --output json | jq -r '.gas_unit_price | (.amount + .denom)'
`

